Kubernetes Networking devides into 2 Types:

	1. Kubernetes Cluster Communication: Communication between Master & Worker Nodes
	2. Kubernetes Objects Communication: 
		Communication between k8s objects in worker nodes.
			1. Container to Container communication within a Pod.
			2. Pods & Services Communication.
			3. Pod to Pod Communication.
			4. External to Service Communication.

	Every Pod get's its own IP Addresses.
	Pods can communicate with other Pods with Pod IP addresses without NAT.
	Agents on a node (system daemons,Kubelet) can communicate with all the Pods in that node.
	Containers within a Pod share the network namespace (IP and MAC address), so they can communicate
	with each other using the loopback IP addresses.

	CNI: Container Networking Interface

		 	1. Creation of Bridge Network/interface in the node.
			2. Manage non-identical CIDR Network ranges.
			3. Creates Network Namespace.
			4. Create & attach virtual interfaces (VETH) pairs
			5. Assign IP's to the VETH pairs.
			6. Enable all the VETH pairs and loopback interfaces
			7. Add IP Table Rule & forward the Host Traffic using NAT (SNAT) 

Azure Kubernetes Service Networking Models:

	In AKS, The traditional control plane nodes are hosted by microsoft and provided as a service
	We dont have to worry about the operational aspect of an api-server, controller manager etc

	In Kubernetes everything revolves around the pods so where do these pods run, These pods run on nodes which 
	in the case of aks its a virtual machine.

	From networking perspective in aks these pods and nodes can be deployed in two different ways and will break down and demystify each of them:

		The Two networking models we have in kubernetes is KUBENET & Azure CNI

		Kubenet: Is also called as basic networking model which we can build our own virtual network.
			 In the case of kubenet, every node that is the vms gets an ip from the azure virtual network
			 For example the default ip space of azure virtual network is upto 10.2.0.0/16, so the nodes deploying using kubenet
			 would reside inside of a subnet in this virtual network let's say 10.2.1.0/24 and get an ip address from this range
			    
		Azure CNI: Its an advanced networking model which we can build our own virtual network or Aks will create a new virtual network.
			      